Render layers as a group (#7946)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/user_manual/introduction/general_tools.rst

  Select the contextual menu :guilabel:`Zoom to Visible Scale` option to zoom
  the map to the layer's nearest visibility scale bound.

.. _render_as_group:

Control layers rendering through grouping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Groups are a means of structuring layers within a tree in the project
but they can also impact how their component layers are rendered,
namely as a single flattened object during map renders.

> Option for such a rendering is available within the :guilabel:`Layer Styling` panel whenever a group is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option for such a rendering is available within the :guilabel:`Layer Styling` panel whenever a group is selected.
```

  and the opacity applies to the "whole of group" only.

  .. _figure_group_opacity:

  .. figure:: img/group_opacity.png
     :align: center

     Setting opacity on layers vs on a group

     The image on the left shows two layers being rendered at 50% opacity
     (underlying features are visible, but semi-masked by the 50% red feature on top).
     The second image shows the result of setting the opacity on the group
     (parts of the blue underlying child layer is completely obscured by the red layer on top
     and then the result is rendered at 50% opacity).

* :guilabel:`Blend modes`: Just like opacity, setting a :ref:`blend mode <blend-modes>` (like multiply, overlay, ...)
  for an entire group results first in flattening features of child layers, with upper ones obscuring lower.
  The rendering is then obtained by blending the flat group and the layers sitting below the group.

  * When the child layers have blend modes assigned, it is applied before flattening
    but the scope is restricted to only affecting other child layers from that group,
    and not other layers sitting below the whole group.

>   * Child layers are added some more :ref:`blending modes <blending_clipping>` options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Some more :ref:`blending modes <blending_clipping>` options are available for child layers in groups,
```

* **Subtract**: Subtracts pixel values of one item from the other.
  In the case of negative values, black is displayed.

.. todo: Add examples for the common blending modes

.. _blending_clipping:

When a layer is part of a group that :ref:`renders layers as a group <render_as_group>`,
additional blending modes are available for the rendering.
They provide methods to clip the render of one layer’s content by the content in a second "mask" layer.

* :guilabel:`Masked By Below`: The output is the source, where the alpha is reduced by that of the destination.
* :guilabel:`Mask Below`: The output is the destination, where the alpha is reduced by that of the source.
* :guilabel:`Inverse Masked By Below`: The output is the source, where the alpha is reduced by the inverse of destination.
* :guilabel:`Inverse Mask Below`: The output is the destination, where the alpha is reduced by the inverse of the source.
* :guilabel:`Paint Inside Below`: The source pixel is blended on top of the destination,
  with the alpha of the source pixel reduced by the alpha of the destination pixel.
* :guilabel:`Paint Below Inside`: The destination pixel is blended on top of the source,

>   with the alpha of the destination pixel is reduced by the alpha of the destination pixel.

Author: TBH I picked this from the source code and I'm unsure of how understandable this is for end users. What do `source` and `destination` refer to? top and bottom layers?

Reviewer: Source is the top layer, destination is the bottom layer. You could probably just replace these words and the descriptions would be sufficient.

Reviewer: Looking good! I'd also change "alpha" to "opacity" too to make it a bit friendlier.
